My number one issue was public safety.
My number two issue was the behavioral
health crisis that we were just talking
about. And my number three issue was I
want to tell the world and let them know
that San Francisco is open for business.
We're going to cut the red tape so our
small businesses can flourish. And so
I've been saying the same thing for
about two and a half years now. Uh from
the time I ran to right now on this
great podcast, I'm going to say we need
>> Thank you. We need police officers
walking the beat along commercial
corridors. Uh our uh families that are
taking their kids uh to public school
and using MUN uh deserve a uh a a MUN
stop that is free of people uh using
drugs. Uh it's unacceptable.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Jill
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm [music] Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, we have a mayoral election coming
up here in New York City. I think
>> very exciting.
>> I think when this comes out, it'll be
literally tomorrow. We're recording this
October 28th. No one knows for sure
what's going to happen, but I think
it'll be like the day after this episode
comes out.
>> Absolutely. And obviously a very heated
mayoral election. I think uh one that's
kind of taking national attention as
well, which you know, New York is always
important, but maybe
>> it's always important to the media. It's
always very important to the media.
That's definitely uh that's definitely
the case. But you know what I think? Um
there's obvious reasons why there's a
lot of national interest. Besides the
fact that as reporters, we like to
report on our hometown.
>> A lot of cities are dealing with the
same challenges that New York is. We
know New York City is a very expensive
city to live in. There are a lot of
cities that are very expensive,
particularly any city that has some sort
of economic dynamism. Right now, New
York City has a number of quality of
life issues that frustrate voters,
whether it's uh crime, which has come
down a lot, but you know, safety on
public transportation, homelessness,
etc., public drug use, which uh in my
opinion has gotten a lot better over the
last few years, but it was very
prevalent. I saw it a lot in the parks
in 20 2122. These are not by no means
are these issues that are sort of New
York Oh, dealing with the Trump
administration and the tensions they're
in. These are not New York City specific
issues at all.
>> No. And it's funny as we sat down to
record this particular episode. Right
when we sat down, I got a um an email.
The data behind Chicago's citywide
housing shortage.
>> Chicago is another one.
>> Yeah. And I mean, there are so many
commonalities between these cities. It's
definitely worth comparing and
contrasting. One thing I got to ask just
for the New York election.
>> Yeah.
>> Are you still a single issue voter on
rats?
>> Um well, if I were, my candidate would
no longer be
>> I know that's I have to find a number
two issue. I'll do I'll I'll start to do
some research over the weekend.
>> Good idea.
>> Anyway, you know, when obviously um one
of the cities I've always been more of a
Southern California guy, but I'm coming
really coming around on San Francisco.
We were there last November. I had a uh
I think it was last November. We had a
great time. I loved using the Whimos.
It's a stunning city and it really is.
It's not just the Bay Area. It's San
Francisco specific that is the beating
heart of the AI boom right now. So the
most in uh important industry in the
world is there. It's truly a lovely
city. However, has many of the same
quality of life and affordability
questions that we face in anywhere else.
In fact, maybe and some some would say
for at least a time arguably worse.
>> Yeah. I mean, I remember from visiting
it also has some very very beautiful
neighborhoods with historic buildings,
very very cute neighborhoods in many
respects. And so, you can imagine that
efforts to boost housing affordability,
immediately run into that whole
neighborhood vibe.
>> I I a few years ago, I was visiting a
friend and I said, "I love this
neighborhood. I love where you live."
And he was like a Yimi. He's like, "Joe,
you're not supposed to say that. This is
the neighborhood." He's a renter,
though, so of course he doesn't mind if
his house gets torn down for new builds.
Anyway, we really do have the perfect
guest to talk about big city governance,
all of these things. We are going to be
speaking with uh literally the perfect
guest, uh Daniel Lurri. He is the new
mayor of San Francisco or he came into
office earlier this year, so he's been
in u in an office uh less than a year.
So, Mayor Lurri, thank you so much for
uh coming on the OddLots podcast. Joe
Tracy, it's good to be with you. I feel
like you were selling our city better
than I could. So you you two can just
keep going. And Joe, your love of
Southern California, [laughter] we'll
get you we'll get you going on Northern
California and San Francisco by the end
of this podcast.
>> Okay. Well, that's a good goal for you
to can fully flip me over to be Northern
California P. No, I really I really uh I
did love it. You know, there's so many
different angles that we could start
with. Um people have talked about the
homelessness challenge. Let's just start
there. People have talked about the
homelessness challenge in San Francisco
for a long time. How would you identify
setting aside solving it whatever that
means? What is it about San Francisco
that in your view has made the what are
the underlying conditions that the city
has faced for a long time such that it's
been a fairly acute problem facing the
city? How should we understand the
causes of it?
>> Well, I think it's been going on for
three or four decades now. I think we
have not built enough housing not only
here in the city but across the state.
So it really is a regional and a state
issue. Um I would argue right now it's
not just a homelessness crisis. It's a
fentanyl crisis. Uh we have a real
crisis on our streets. I I I go up and
talk to people that are suffering on our
streets every single day. Uh most
mornings I spend 45 minutes to an hour
uh talking to people trying to get
people off the street and into shelter
into treatment into the right kind of
beds. Um we kind of had a live and let
live attitude for a while in this city.
Uh and that has changed. Uh we have
changed that attitude over the last
year. We want to get people off the
street and into help. But of course, uh
it is an affordability issue, uh
statewide, and we need to build more
housing statewide. We're in the midst
right now of of getting uh a family
zoning plan, a new map, uh passed here,
uh because the state has uh mandated
that of all counties in in San Franc in
the state and San Francisco is going to
do its part. Um and we need more
housing. H uh definitely want to talk
about the family zoning project for
sure. But just on the homeless issue, I
guess one area uh of commonality between
New York and San Francisco is you do
have this debate over mental health and
I guess how to balance compassionate
outreach with stricter enforcement or
stricter policing. What are you doing on
that front? When you say you need to get
people help, what's actually happening?
>> Yeah. Um, first off, I don't believe
it's compassionate to allow someone to
uh be passed out on the sidewalk. I
don't believe uh we should allow people
to smoke fentanyl in our bus stops. Um,
we have to uh put an end to that and we
have to then get people into the right
kind of bed, the right kind of
treatment. For example, uh we opened up
a 16 bed uh center at a place called A22
Giri. Uh it is a place that we can uh
someone can walk in. Uh it is voluntary.
Uh police it's police friendly. It's
fire friendly. So they can bring
somebody in. They can stay for 24 hours.
Uh they can get on to medication. they
can take a moment to uh relax and and
and we have staff there than then gets
them out to the right recovery bed to
the right treatment bed of which we have
stood up 400 new beds um just this year
alone uh that are you know 90day uh
six-month treatment uh programs that's
what we need to do what we were doing as
a city before was we were just building
lots of permanent supportive housing
which I believe
But if you are struggling with a
fentanyl addiction and you are put into
housing without services, without
support, it is not a good fit. And we
have really come uh to understand that
uh really in a really important way this
year. And so we are uh doing a much
better job of getting people off the
street into a short-term care and then
into long-term care. But we have a long
way to go. Um but that A22 Gary 24 hours
uh is an example of a new approach. Um
one other thing that we've done since I
came into office in the first month uh
we readjusted how we do neighborhood
outreach or street outreach. We had
seven different departments prior to us
me coming into office. Now those seven
different departments are uh put
together in what we call a team of
teams. They meet each morning uh as
those seven departments in one mission
outreach team, one tenderloin outreach
team. They go out together. They know
who their uh uh target population is.
They know the names of the people and
they try to get them off the street and
into those right kind of beds.
>> You know, there was an incident in New
York City recently. I probably should
have looked up the details a little bit
more, but I think there was a some sort
an influencer took some photos of people
selling knockoff bags on Canal Street,
>> which they've been doing for
>> decades, which they've been doing for
decades, and then I think uh Ice came
in, and I was actually on Canel Street
two nights ago. They were back, etc. So,
whatever they supposedly solved from
looks like it was just for the cameras
for one day. But there is this argument
that I've heard which is like you know
what if you don't want ICE to come in
and quote clean up your streets, you
should have done it yourself. And I
don't really have a strong opinion on
like the optimal level of enforcement or
the optimal level of like how extreme
you want to get to enforce certain
quality of life things. But I have some
sympathy for this view that like well
you know there's all this sort of public
disorder etc. and where were the um
politicians prior to uh the Trump
administration taking some of these
things seriously? Do you think it's fair
to say that the Democratic Party in a
number of big cities have not taken what
people call quality of life seriously
enough in the past?
>> I I'm not going to speak for the
Democratic party. I'm uh I was never in
politics. Uh I ran because of the
disorder on the streets of San
Francisco. I ran. Uh, my number one
issue was public safety. My number two
issue was the behavioral health crisis
that we were just talking about. And my
number three issue was I want to tell
the world and let them know that San
Francisco is open for business. We're
going to cut the red tape so our small
businesses can flourish. And so I've
been saying the same thing for about two
and a half years now. Uh, from the time
I ran to right now on this great
podcast, I'm going to say we need Thank
you.
>> We need police officers walking the beat
along commercial corridors. Uh, our uh
families that are taking their kids uh
to public school and using mun uh
deserve a uh a a MUN stop that is free
of people uh using drugs. Uh it's
unacceptable and it it was uh two and a
half years ago for me. It's unacceptable
to me. So local law enforcement can do
the job. We are short a number of
officers. We have the first net increase
in police and sheriff's deputies in 10
years. A net increase for the first time
in 10 years. Um and so we need to get
back to full staffing and we can handle
it our we can handle it. So, just real
quick followup, like I I agree. I mean,
I agree. I I would like to have public
transportation stops everywhere where
there's not public drug use, public uh
drugs for sale, etc. Where do you
encounter the opposition to that? Like,
what have you discovered about where the
roadblocks are? Because again, seems
really sensible that you shouldn't be uh
using drugs in public. So, where's the
opposition?
>> Oh, well, I you know, it's funny. I I
there are people um and uh I talk to
them every day. Uh I drop my kid off uh
my son off in the mission um uh and I
walk the streets from the mission to
Hayes Valley most mornings and there's a
a bike route um and uh there was four
people of four of whom were either in
the midst of using drugs or had used
drugs and I was telling them they needed
to move and they we would we would give
them help. We would give them offer of
support. Um and someone came by uh but
literally in the bike lane and someone
uh stopped and said, "What are you
doing? They live here." And I said,
"This is a bike lane uh that parents are
taking their kids to school on the back
of their bikes. They're walking their
kids to school." Um so there is
opposition. And uh uh and but I would
also tell you that the vast majority of
San Franciscans uh want uh public
safety. They want clean streets. They
want safe uh sidewalks and uh we are
delivering on that. Crime is down 30% in
our city. Crime in Union Square, our
financial district because of uh the the
staffing increase that we put together
through something we call the
hospitality zone task force for Union
Square, Moscone, Yerbab Buena, which is
our downtown hub. Crime is down 40%.
violent crime in our city. We haven't
seen these type of rates since the
1950s.
So, what we are doing is working and uh
we are going and the vast majority of
people are very excited. It's the first
time in in a very long time that San
Franciscans, the majority of them feel
like our city's heading in the right
direction and we are a city on the rise
and it's a great time to be here. Well,
tell us more about what exactly you're
doing. And one thing I'm very curious
about is, I guess, the division of labor
or division of responsibility between
the mayor's office or the district
attorney or the police force and things
like that.
>> Well, I think uh the police officers
have uh a responsibility obviously to
keep safety and and our district
attorney uh has done a great job
prosecuting and really going after these
uh fentanyl dealers. Um, so you know,
obvious I mean I think your audience,
you you all told me before coming on is
the the smartest audience there is.
>> That's right. Listeners, we always say
you're the smartest out there.
[laughter]
>> But, uh, you know, listen, our SFPD,
they're they're incredible. Uh, they are
driving crime down. Uh, we have a great
partnership with our DA, with our city
attorney, with our sheriffs. uh our our
our park rangers are doing a great job
in our parks as well. Um we uh it's a
team effort and we are united uh in
making sure that everyone here in San
Francisco knows. Every visitor to San
Francisco knows, every convention goer
knows that public safety is our number
one priority. We we pulled off the NBA
All-Star game. We had the uh uh Chinese
New Year parade on the same weekend. It
went off without a hitch. We just had a
conference with 50,000 people last week
in San Francisco. Uh we had a
demonstration uh on a Saturday with
50,000 people marching, zero arrests. Um
we know how uh to keep people safe and
we're proving it.
>> You mentioned that you know you want to
be a dynamic place for business. We're
also talking about uh homelessness.
Should uh San Francisco keep Prop C. So,
I understand that on big companies with
over revenue of over $50 million that
there's this tiny gross revenue tax.
Some speculate, though it's not
confirmed. I don't know if they've said
it, that that is one reason that Stripe
does not have its headquarters in San
Francisco. Uh should that be revisited
so as to bring more uh corporate
activity into the city itself?
>> What I've always said is that we need to
be competitive on the tax front. uh
we're out of whack with San Jose and and
Santa Clara County. So, uh you know,
actually every candidate for mayor last
year uh supported what was called PropM,
which kind of uh realigned our tax
structure, got it uh got it more
competitive. Uh that was an important
step for our city. I think it signaled
to um everybody that we were serious
about uh being in the ballpark. I think
we probably still have more work to do,
but the the thing that I think companies
really look at uh is the quality of life
and uh they look at the street
conditions, they look at public safety.
I think that is without question the
most important thing and we are they are
seeing that they have a mayor that is
delivering on that front that I am
focused on creating the conditions so
that they can succeed. That's what we
that's our mantra. We want to create the
conditions so that small businesses uh
can succeed and that b big business is
is welcome back here. What I always say
though you two is I want these companies
to be part of the community though like
I want them investing in our public
transit. I want them investing in our
public schools. I want them investing in
our arts and cultural institutions. Um,
I I would say, you know, for a a long
time, uh, and I ran TippingPoint
Community, which is similar to Robin
Hood in New York City. Um, you know,
Tipping Point was always focused on
bringing individuals and companies uh to
help um support those that were living
in poverty, those uh around job training
and housing. Um, but we need to see
more. We need to see more out of our
business community. Uh we're going to do
our part uh at the administration to
create the conditions for their success,
but I need them to help us uh make sure
that San Francisco regains its status as
the greatest city in the world. We're
not far off. We're closer than most
people think. We are the most beautiful
city in the world right now and we are
soon going to be the greatest city in
the world. Again,
>> I was going to say New York might take
issue with the greatest city in the
world label.
>> I know who I'm talking to. [laughter]
Okay, since we are talking about
companies, one of the reasons we wanted
to talk to you is, as Joe mentioned in
the intro, San Francisco obviously a
massive tech hub. And what we're seeing
at the moment in markets and the
economy, it's kind of weird because, you
know, AI related stocks keep going up.
Everyone's very excited. But on the
other hand, you have a lot of layoffs
happening in the tech industry. So I
think more than 100,000 job cuts at
places like Microsoft and Meta. When you
look at San Francisco's labor market
right now or overall economy, what are
you seeing? Is there a a net benefit
from AI or are you seeing increased
unemployment? No, I mean right now we're
seeing absolutely we're seeing uh people
from uh Texas and New York and other
parts of the globe buying buildings in
San Francisco betting on uh real estate
understanding that uh that it's not just
about AI though it's really about the
ecosystem that is is growing up around
um a company like open AI or anthropic
or data bricks uh these are enabling
companies and and startups and
entrepreneurs in the health care space
uh and and and others like it is
booming in in that respect. Uh but I
also want to create the conditions so
that we have a durable uh uh trajectory
uh not one that is just reliant on on
just uh you know um on on tech or on AI.
uh but because you know we we did that
in the 2010s we were so solely focused
just on tech and I think what you're
seeing here is that we are seeing a
broad-based recovery arts and culture we
seeing new restaurants uh we're seeing
healthc care really take off also and so
uh we want it to be durable we want it
to be broad um but there's no question
that AI is driving uh and is a major
force and it's a force of in terms for
good in terms of uh uh jobs.
>> What should the next mayor of New York
City um whoever, you know, you've you
deal with all these CEOs of startups and
they go on Twitter and they yap and they
threaten to move to Austin or they
threaten to move to Miami, etc. And I
think a bunch of them move back. Um but
they they're saying the same thing here.
Some of them like, "Oh, I'm going to,
you know, move to Nashville or whatever
if so and so gets elected." What should
the next mayor of New York City know
about having a productive relationship
with uh a significant part of the
taxpayers?
>> Well, I I would uh say to any next mayor
of any city, don't listen to me. I don't
listen to me. I'm 10 months in. I am I
am solely focused on San Francisco. I I
get asked
>> But you must have learned something.
That's what I'm saying. I'm asking
>> But you're asking him to advise his
competitors.
>> No, but you've learned stuff, right? in
the 10 months or whatever, nine months
since you've been on the job, what have
you learned about um uh yeah,
interacting with uh these very very
powerful wealthy interests?
>> Well, listen, I I think what I've
learned throughout my career is that you
have to have an open door. You have to
have conversations with people. Most
importantly, you have to listen to
people. um whether you know you're
trying to get uh family zoning, our
housing plan passed and I'm in
neighborhoods that you all were
describing before who are like, you
know, uh I'm worried and I'm scared and
and there are a lot of people fearful
about new housing. Uh and you have to go
listen and you have to work with them
and you have to invest. And I think the
same goes with our uh immigrant
community, goes with our arts and
culture communities, it goes with our
restaurant tours who I sit down and meet
with and listen to the struggles that
they have with their power bills going
up 30 40% over the last two years. Um I
do I pride myself on listening to
people, working with people, and then
getting to the right solution that's
going to benefit as many San Franciscans
as possible. So on zoning since it keeps
coming up, one thing you hear a lot,
especially in the case of San Francisco,
is that the housing shortage is mostly
about restrictive zoning and regulation
and things like that. Is is that it? How
how restrictive is the regulation? And
are there other factors, I suppose, that
are playing into this?
>> Absolutely. I mean, listen, we we it
it's been restrictive, but the state has
uh loosened those restrictions quite a
bit. Um we are doing everything we can
to make it easier uh to build more
affordable housing. I went to three
ribbon cutings last week at three
different sites for 100% affordable uh
in different parts of the city. The cost
of labor is really high. Uh the cost of
of of goods is really high. Um so it is
not just about uh you know our zoning
plan. It it involves uh a lot of other
um uh issues as well. And so uh we we
know that
I'm very hopeful that we pass this uh
family zoning plan but it does not mean
the next day that building will start.
Uh it is we we need to see you know
interest rates are likely to come down.
That's going to be important. uh we have
to work with our our friends in labor to
make sure that the cost of labor does
not continue to be something that makes
it so that we don't have people working
and and building.
>> Why don't you just give us the quick
synopsis of if this passes, what will
change from now to after your family the
the family zoning proposal?
>> Well, I think it's just going to make it
easier. Um uh we have lots of uh
amendments still to be worked on to be
quite honest that's going to protect uh
rent controlled units of of three or
more uh that are in a building. Uh it is
going to allow uh for more housing to
get built more quickly. So you won't
have to go through as much of a process.
But um uh once again I don't think
you're going to see a a huge difference
uh during let's just say my first term.
We have to see those other factors play
into it as well. Um, but I really think
it's going to allow
the children that are growing up in our
city to really dream that they can um,
uh, stay in San Francisco. Uh, we had
independent analysis that said it's
going to drop rents by between $800 and
$1,500 a month. Uh, that's a huge
difference for people. Um so we are very
hopeful that it allows our city to
become more affordable. Uh there's a
there's a push back often uh from people
that say this city's uh uh this plan
will make it unaffordable. Uh I say this
city is really unaffordable right now.
Uh people say this is going to hurt
small businesses. I say it's going to
provide uh more customers. Uh what we're
going to see with this plan is more
density along commercial corridors and
along transit lines. Uh that is where
the bulk of uh the height will go up. Uh
it'll go up to six to eight stories
along commercial corridors. And what
I've told everybody in residential
neighborhoods, we have basically four
stories everywhere. 77% of our plan
there are no height increases. We're
really protecting our residential
neighborhoods. uh our our our our jewels
that you all were talking about before.
Um and it's going to also help us
prevent our Ocean Beach from becoming
Miami Beach, which is a real fear that
people have and I understand it and I
don't want that. I want our, you know,
sunset and Richmond neighborhoods to
have retain their unique character.
>> You know, Joe, I have yet to experience
a rent decrease in New York ever in my
life. Yeah, you're never going to get
>> Well, I heard some people got them in
2020, right? But I wasn't here. So, uh,
that's that's a novelty seeing rents go
down in a major city. Um, if it happens.
So, what have your conversations
actually been like with developers? What
are they saying their needs actually are
in fulfilling some of this project?
>> Um, to be quite honest, I haven't had
that many conversations uh with
developers. uh and when when I have it's
it's really around interest rates, the
cost of labor, the cost of uh
construction. Um I've had a lot more
conversations with people out uh in the
west side and the north side, which is
predominantly where this family zoning
plan uh is focused because we we are
building in other parts of the city. Um
and the state is mandating in high
resourced neighborhoods. And so, you
know, we haven't had a zoning change on
the west side of San Francisco since the
1970s.
Um, so, uh, that's important for people
to know. Um, so I'm really speaking to
people that are understandably anxious,
fearful, um, and really trying to
explain to them that we have really
listened to them over this past year. uh
really making sure that height
increases. You won't see many of those,
but allowing people if they own a home
to uh uh divide it into two units uh so
that their kids could stay there long
term. Uh we this plan meets the
requirements of the state and I think
it's a really thoughtful thoughtful
well-laidout plan.
>> Shifting gears a little bit in the few
minutes we have left. A lot of
Democratic Party politicians is like
we're opposing Trump's agenda. oppose
whatever that means, opposing Trump's
agenda, protecting the city or the state
against Trump's uh agenda. You mentioned
immigrants. Do you feel that you have a
responsibility to protect San
Francisco's undocumented residents
against Trump's agenda?
>> Is that a useful thing?
>> I I I have a responsibility to take care
of San Franciscans and everybody here in
San Francisco. I have a responsibility
to protect people coming in for a
convention. Uh I have a responsibility
to take care of our communities. Um and
so I I don't think about it in like the
micro term, but um we have uh our
policies in place uh here in San
Francisco that have kept us safe.
They've kept us safe for decades. when
when you have the policies that we have
in place um that make sure that local
law enforcement are not, you know, uh
tasked with federal immigration
enforcement that allows people to report
crime, that allows people to take their
kids to the hospital. It allows uh
people uh it allows our city to stay
safe. And the numbers are bearing it
out. And I just keep reiterating uh that
my focus is on keeping San Francisco
safe and it's working. You know, uh we
have the lowest homicide on record,
homicide rate on record in terms of we
haven't seen these numbers since the
1950s.
Crime in our downtown is down 40%. Crime
citywide is down 30%. So what we are
doing uh is protecting the people of San
Francisco. We're protecting our visitors
and businesses. Everyone is seeing that
it is working. And so that's how I
answer that question.
>> What advice do you have for the incoming
New York City mayor, whoever it may be?
>> Uh you that's the second time you two
have asked me that question.
>> Not on tax though. Not on tax. Something
cooperative. I've talked to mayors
across this country and many of us have
have discussed that staying focused on
your people, staying focused on uh your
small businesses, focused on your public
schools is the way to go. Like uh but
once again, I don't think other people
in other cities should be taking my
advice. I think they should be uh doing
what works for them. Um, I'm doing what
I believe works best for San Francisco
and right now I am feeling like and I
think the vast majority of San
Franciscans are feeling like we're
heading in the right direction and I'm
just going to keep my head down and keep
driving and getting results for the
people of San Francisco.
>> I'd love to end it on a very big picture
nice note about your results. I'm sure
you'd like to end it there too, but I
have one last uh question that's a
little bit more specific. A significant
chunk of San Francisco's budget operates
through uh nonprofits and I think
there's a significant amount New York
and other cities as well. How do
taxpayers
know that that money is being well
spent? What is how do we know that that
is a good allocation? These sort of
private enterprises that do services,
whether it's related to housing, whether
it's related to homelessness, how do we
uh how do you establish accountability
such that we know that these uh these
are good allocations? Yeah, it I I think
people should have a lot of uh of they
should want answers on that front and we
are working on it. So, I came into
office in January. We had a $870 million
budget deficit, the largest budget
deficit in our city's history. Uh we
closed that with uh a mix of many
things, including a hiring freeze that
we put into place immediately. Um we cut
25% of the discretionary funding that
was available uh to cut uh to uh
nonprofits which was incredibly
difficult. We are putting in metrics.
This is what we prided ourselves on at
tipping point was holding organizations
accountable getting results and so we
are uh working on that now. Uh so I came
in in January the budget was due due in
June. So we had it was a sprint
essentially. Um most uh uh
administrations wait until January to
start planning. Uh we put our budget
before the board of supervisors in in
late June. Um it got passed on August
1st. August 2nd we were planning for
this upcoming budget. Uh and we are
putting accountability measures into
place on our contracts to nonprofits.
But one thing I would say uh is that the
nonprofits need to be held accountable,
but so do my departments. Um I have some
departments that don't pay those
nonprofit providers for 12 months. Uh we
have small nonprofits floating uh city
government that has a $16 billion
budget. We are floating them money. So
we need to hold everyone accountable. I
and it starts with me. Uh we have a
tremendous budget in San Francisco. We
all know that it has not been spent as
well as it could be. I I I'm frustrated
by that uh for years working at tipping
point. I saw it up close. Um and now I
want everybody to hold me accountable in
the years ahead. But we're going to put
metrics in place. We're going to hold
nonprofits accountable and I'm going to
hold my department heads accountable as
well.
>> Mayor Lurie, thank you so much for uh
coming on OddLots. Uh hope to chat with
you again at some point. And just so you
too know, we end everything in San
Francisco because we're on the rise. We
got to just share our how great San
Francisco is going with a let's go San
Francisco. Okay, [laughter]
Tracy, I would like to believe that with
many of the sort of, you know,
challenges, I guess, that big cities
face, I would like to believe it's just
a matter of will. You know what I'm
saying? I would like to believe that all
it takes is someone saying, you know
what, we're going to be accountable.
We're committed to addressing these
things, whether it's homelessness,
whether it's crime, whether it's public
drug use, etc. It would be nice if the
issues just resolved like wanting to do
it. You know what I'm saying? M
>> I'm not sure like the the way it sounds,
you know, talking to Mayor Lur it sounds
like one of the big changes like oh we
as he put it we used to have a live and
let live attitude and now that's not the
case. I would like to believe that that
really is the difference that it's just
like an attitude change. I I feel like
there's a butt coming. But you would
like to believe but?
>> No, I just like if it's that simple of
an attitude change, then a lot of these
things could be solved. I guess my butt
is No, there's no butt. I just like I'm
not sure if that's the case. Like
>> I guess it's a but. But he certainly
presents a compelling argument. I mean I
think like crime is down in a lot of
cities there. We know that it spiked in
21 2022 with the the whole chaos post
pandemic etc. It's been coming down
everywhere. I think there are a lot of
mayors that can point to a decline. So
what I'm saying is I would like to
believe that the decline in crime in San
Francisco can be pointed. It's like oh
we have a mayor who now decided to
tackle these things as opposed to just
sort of general trends.
>> Does that make sense?
>> That makes sense. Um, one thing I will
say that I found very interesting was,
you know, he talked about that ecosystem
of tech companies
>> and it kind of reminded me of some of
the conversations we've had about tech
development or even manufacturing
development in China
>> and the idea that, you know, you can
have a competitive advantage because you
know that when you move to a certain
place, you're going to find like an
engineer around the corner. You're going
to find that particular programmer. So,
I don't It was interesting to hear that
sort of echoed in San Francisco.
>> It's interesting that um there's a lot
to do. I mean, it's interesting that we
used to talk more about the Bay Area in
general like Oh, yeah.
>> You know, and now it's really becoming a
San Francisco story and a lot of these
AI companies, you know, you don't hear
about like what are those random
mountain sunny veil or mount what's the
one that Certino, etc. all these, you
know, like all of the and that's its own
fascinating thing, which is that AI does
not strike me as a Bay Area story. We
don't have time to get into this, but AI
does not strike me as a Bay Area story
so much as it's a San Francisco story.
These are San Francisco companies and
they're not just like somewhere like
down the peninsula or whatever.
>> It's funny now that you mentioned that.
Yeah.
>> I'm thinking like Bay Area. Seriously, a
term I have not heard for a very long
time.
>> Isn't that interesting? like the Bay
Area is or even Silicon Valley.
>> It's an interesting phenomenon because
when it comes to hard tech, when it
comes to manufacturing, I have a very
intuitive understanding of why
elomeration matters, right?
>> You want to be able to like get this
provider and distance really matters.
It's not intuitive to me in the same way
why with something like any software,
let alone AI, that there would be such a
tight cluster. And yet it does seem to
be um a very tight cluster there.
>> Well, it there seems to be a network
effect of some sort at play here.
totally know why that is in the same way
the network effects exist with say
manufacturing because we remember 2020
work from home work from anywhere Slack
exists IB exists etc and yet everyone's
together there we didn't get too much
into this but I do think that's an
interesting reason to be interested in
San Francisco right now
>> for sure we leave it there
>> let's leave it there
>> all right this has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast I'm Tracy
Aloway you can find me at Tracy Aloway
and I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart.
>> For more oddlots content, check out our
daily newsletter at
bloomberg.com/odotss.
>> We also have a Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like, leave a comment, or
subscribe.
>> Thanks for listening.
[music]